well let's get the very latest from the
ground we can join hany Mahmud in K
yunas inside the G Street but hany so 33
days in the bombardment continues tell
us
more yes well as the Israeli military
along with foot soldiers and armored
vehicle are furthering their presence uh
in the uh in the heart
all right all right all right so that
was uh two cars are rushing to the
hospital bringing uh two uh uh K
two two people who were killed in in a
previous air strikes I was going to come
to that those seem to be pulled uh uh
from underneath the rubble within the
past hour the an air strike targeted the
Eastern side of the of kanun a z area
destroying a residential home killing uh
four people right at the spot one of
them was a little girl a child and what
seems to be now is more people from
underneath the rubble are being pulled
out and brought to the hospital in those
plastic uh bags uh but in within also
the past hour uh another air strike
targeting a residential home in aat a
refugee camp this refugee camp is
densely populated is in the central part
of the Gaza Strip an area that was
designated as safe for gazans and people
in the northern part to evacuate to uh
seven people reported killed right at
the spot there are more people uh under
the rubbles T injuries as well the
number is likely to increase as there
are people under D these these homes
were full of people full of uh people
who already own these homes but as well
as evacuees who moved from Gaza take
taking refuge in these homes find
themselves uh under uh unpredictable uh
bombs falling on them this is the the
latest uh with with air strikes but the
Israeli military is furthering its
presence now and operating in the heart
of Gaza with tens of Tanks push pushing
deep into uh the Gaza City uh moving
from the three main axes all the way to
squeeze Gaza City the Israeli milit says
that they are they have been able to
locate some of bunkers and tunnels that
Hamas leadership and Hamas elements are
using to operate uh but there's no
comments or a statement from Hamas about
this so far very real the sense of chaos
and urgency there in in carun hany and
the awful reality of the bombardment
what about the situation with supplies
supplies into the country absolutely
essential they've been at the bare
minimum what's the latest
well the latest is uh we we read a
report about the number of humanitarian
Convoy carrying medical supplies and and
Food Supplies and other essential items
com to Gaza in one month are are the
equivalent of what Gaza daily needs of
those supplies we're talking about it
close to 500 trucks but this is what
Gaza needs on daily basis 500 trucks is
what Gaza needs every single day to
sustain uh itself uh if we want to talk
about Gaza and the northern part uh the
situations are very complicated very
very dire situations indeed people don't
have access to food as the vast majority
of bakeries uh came to a complete
shutdown there was an announce about a
complete sensation of these bakeries
where people don't have access uh to
bread right now uh L alone the Water
Supplies as well most of the water in
Gaza and the northern part and given the
intensity of air strike is very
contaminated and not suitable for human
uh human consumption medical supplies
are an issue as well as Hospital uh
suffer to sustain their operations uh F
fuel remain uh the major problem as the
lack of a fuel forc many of these
hospitals to shut down completely and as
of now they are just a standing uh
skeleton uh facility not offering any
medical services whatsoever to injuries
and patients let alone evacuees as well
yeah desperate situation hany we'll
leave it there for now that's hany mmud
in carun in the South Let's cross to
occupied East Jerusalem now Sarah hrat
is there and Sarah we're talking there
with about supplies with Hy and just how
colossal the need is and yet we hear of
an aid Convoy being directly targeted
yeah and that Aid Convoy uh belonged to
the international Committee of the Red
Cross they had five um uh cars and two
other vehicles that were heading to Al
cod's Hospital uh on Tuesday when it
came under Fire I spoke to the
spokesperson uh Alana sinenko who spoke
a bit more about the details of what
happened there
on the way to the hospital it was hit so
we don't have we don't know exactly what
happened the two trucks two trucks were
damaged and our driver was wounded so
they red diverted and went to shiper
hospital instead and of course for us uh
we were shocked to see this happening
and uh just want to use this opportunity
to remind and strongly stress that
humanitarian convoys medical convoys
facilities and Personnel enjoy special
protection under the international
humanitarian law uh Sor what do we
hearing about the Israeli military
entering Gaza City any clarity about
what's
happening they haven't confirmed how far
deep they are into uh Gaza City they
have said that they've been moving in
deeper overnight however eyewitnesses
have told Al jazer that they've seen
themselves soldiers and armored vehicles
not far from alifa hospital we're
talking roughly 700 meters now we do
know that the Israeli military and
government for the last week um has been
saying that Al shifa hospital is where
hamas's what they called Command Center
is underneath that they at the time had
released a video a 3D model uh to prove
that this was the case um of course in
terms of those that are working there
our own journalists that have been uh
outside of Al shaa uh and Hamas itself
they've denied that this is uh the case
um despite that you have a
100,000 uh Palestinians still stuck in
the north trying to make their way uh to
the South the military says that it's
reopened that three-hour window that
we've seen in the last few days to allow
people to move we did see a video from
yesterday showing some of them w a white
flag um but they've spoken to us and
they've even spoken uh to uh the icrc
talking about how difficult it has been
for them with zero access to
humanitarian Aid especially in the north
they she the person I spoke to the
spokeswoman said um that they'd even
been asking them they were glad to see
someone that could potentially help them
once they got to the other side some of
them uh just taking the clothes on their
back and talking about number of dead
bodies that they'd come across that were
just rotting in the streets the weather
here is incredibly hot even so more so
in Gaza and concerns for the checkpoints
that are there uh and of course the
tanks Palestinians are very scared there
and they're not trusting uh the Israelis
when they say that there is a safe
passage all right we'll leave it there
for now thanks very much sah har there
in occupied East Jerusalem